# What is MongoDb?

- NO-SQL/Non Relational Database.
- High Performance.
- Highly Scalable.
- map/reducer Aggragations.
- Auto Sharding.

# Why

- SQL is restrictive.
- SQL need a fixed schema.
- MongoDB is flexible dosent't need Schema, modle or relations.
- You still can create shchema, modle if you want.
- Everything is an object in mongoDB.

# When

- Flexible data requirement.
- Need high availability.
- Need distribution data access.
- Read speed matter more than write speed.

# when not to

- Write is important that read.
- Data is fully relational.
- Everything is connection to every other thing.
- Transitional support is high priority.
- eg:- banking, payments, IOT etc.

# Documnents

- Smallest Record.
- Represrntd ONE data.
- A documents is nothing but a json object.
- Every doc as a unique "ID":\_id:objectID();

        Example:
        {
            _id:ObjectId:("e78fab3db3764fb8"), // generated by mongos...
            author:"John",
            data:"Long text",
            tag:["mongo","js"] ,
            comments:[
                {
                    authore:"Jack",
                    date:"Sun 5th July 2012",
                    text:"Good blog"
                }
            ]
        }

# Collection

- Place where multiple similar documents are stored.
- In above example, multiple such documents will be stored in a collection.
- collection has name eg:"Post"
- use this name to finde docs:'Post.find({authore
  :"Jack"}) etc...

# DataBase

- multiple such collection are stored in a place called DB.
- You can have any number of database.
- A database groups created to ristrict access levels, create replicas, sharding etc

> here we have some db command

1. **_show dbs_** -> _**`means how many db are present in mongoDB.`**_

1. **_use "db_name"_** -> _**`to switch the dataBase init which we want to switch the database.`**_

1. **_show Collections_** -> _**`to show the collectioons are present in db.`**_

1. **_db."collection_name".find()_** -> _**`to finde all the data are present in the collection. `**_

1. **_db.createCollection("collection-name")_** -> _**`this is command will crate the collection.`**_

1. **_db."collection-name".insertOne({})_** -> _**`basically here we are inerting the value or data from collections.`**_

1. **_use "db-name"_** -> _**`it will create the dataBase from mongoDB.`**_

You are supposed to press CTRL+\CTRL+n. (See :help CTRL-\_CTRL-N) this is while we got loop after checking the git branch

- collection
